# PyPOS

## Video Demo:  <URL HERE>

### Description:

PyPOS is a Python-based project designed to help small businesses manage retail transactions. My system aims to make these tasks easy and intuitive for workers and owners alike, is lightweight and focused on efficiency and simplicity. PyPOS will allow users to create inventory lists and process sales while offering real-time tracking and reporting. This will help achieve the main goal of helping businesses operate smoothly and maintain accurate records.

The structure of my project consists of a main file, where all the functionailty of the system is coded, including specific functions that will create reports, process sales and manage stock respectively, the unit testing file where the most important created functions are tested, a separate file detailing the requirements of pip installable libraries used to run and test the program, and a separate file meant for the business to create a Python Dictionary that will contain the initial stock before making any sales or changes. This is stored separately for organisation and clarity purposes but could be placed in the main file as well. It can also be removed entirely and created from scratch running the program and using its functionality.

When starting to operate, the system will display a series of options for the user, who will decide between processing sales, adding items to stock inventory and reporting total sales or real time inventory levels. In order to enhance usability PyPOS will read user inputs case insensitively and will ignore whitespaces to avoid errors generated by possible user typos. If given an input that is not one of the corresponding options, the program will ignore the input and reprompt the user again until it gets a correct input and can continue running correctly.

### How it works:

Product visualizing: upon request the program will display available products with its correspondent prices and stock quantities and prompt the user to choose between making stock changes or additions, proceed to sales or exit the program.

Sales processing: select the item or items that need to be added to the cart by entering their product id code provided in the visualization stage, enter quantity requested and process sale. There is no limit in the amount of items allowed to add to the cart and the user is requested to inform the program once the order is complete by typing "done". Once completed the inventory will be automatically updated with sold products being removed from total product count.

Inventory management: PyPOS will keep track of products in stock and will reduce the stock count according to every sale. The system will alert the user if the remaining stock in place is not enough to fulfill the buyer's order.

Reporting: the program has the ability to generate total sales reports to monitor performance.

### Conclusion:

PyPOS offers a simple yet powerful tool for small businesses to manage sales, inventory and reporting in real time, providing essential tools to run daily operations smoothly. Its main goal is to simplify business management while allowing owners to focus on driving sales.
